Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome. In my opening remarks, I will briefly review today’s policy decision of the Federal Open Market Committee, and I will place that decision in the context of our economic projections and our policy strategy. I will then be glad to take your questions. As indicated in its statement, the Committee decided today to maintain the policies that were initiated at previous meetings. In particular, the Committee is keeping the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent and continues to anticipate that economic conditions are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through mid-2013. The Committee will continue the program that we announced in September to extend the average maturity of the Federal Reserve’s holdings of securities by purchasing longer-term Treasury securities and selling an equal amount of shorter-term Treasury securities. Our purchases of longer-term securities exert downward pressures on longer-term interest rates; at the same time, our guidance about the likely path of the federal funds rate should limit the effect of our sales of shorter-term securities on shorter-term interest rates. Consequently, this maturity extension program should foster more accommodative financial conditions, thereby helping support a stronger recovery without changing the overall size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet. In addition, to further ease conditions in mortgage markets, we are continuing our previously announced program in which the principal payments from our holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities are being reinvested in agency MBS. The Committee regularly reviews the size and composition of our securities holdings, and we are prepared to adjust those holdings as appropriate. 1 of 22 In conjunction with today’s meeting, the FOMC participants submitted projections for economic growth, the unemployment rate, and the inflation rate for the years 2011 to 2014 and over the longer run. The central tendencies and ranges of those projections are depicted in the figures that have been distributed. The longer-run projections—shown at the right side of each figure—represent participants’ assessments of the rate to which each variable will converge, over time, assuming appropriate monetary policy and no further shocks to the economy. The longer-run projections for growth of real GDP have a central tendency of 2.4 to 2.7 percent, and the longer-run projections for the unemployment rate have a central tendency of 5.2 to 6.0 percent. These projections can be interpreted, respectively, as participants’ estimates of the economy’s normal or trend rate of growth and its normal unemployment rate over the longer run. Because the economy's longer- run normal rates of output growth and unemployment are determined largely by nonmonetary factors that may evolve over time and that cannot often be directly measured, these estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to revision. The central tendency of the longer-run projections for inflation, as measured by the price index for personal consumption expenditures, is 1.7 to 2.0 percent. The inflation outlook over the longer run is determined almost entirely by monetary policy, and hence these projections essentially reflect participants’ judgments about the inflation rate that is most consistent with the Federal Reserve’s mandate of fostering maximum employment and stable prices. In effect, the “mandate-consistent” inflation rate is judged to be 2 percent or a bit less. I turn now to the Committee’s economic outlook. Participants’ projections for real GDP for 2011 as a whole have a central tendency of 1.6 to 1.7 percent. Output growth strengthened during the third quarter, reflecting in part a reversal of the temporary factors that had weighed on 2 of 22 growth earlier in the year. In particular, global supply chain disruptions associated with the natural disaster in Japan have diminished. Moreover, the prices of oil and other commodities have come down from their peaks, easing strains on household budgets and contributing to a somewhat faster pace of consumer spending in recent months. The Committee expects only a moderate pace of economic growth over coming quarters, reflecting ongoing drags from the troubled housing sector, still-tight credit conditions for many households and smaller businesses, volatility in financial markets, fiscal consolidation at all levels of government, and other factors. Looking further ahead, economic growth is expected to pick up somewhat as a result of improving financial conditions, strengthening consumer and business confidence, and the continuation of a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy. Specifically, the central tendency of participants’ growth projections picks up gradually from 2.5 to 2.9 percent in 2012 to 3.0 to 3.9 percent by 2014. In light of the anticipated moderate pace of economic recovery, the Committee expects that the unemployment rate will decline only gradually over coming quarters. Participants’ projections for the unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of 2012 have a central tendency of 8.5 to 8.7 percent—only about ½ percentage point lower than the latest monthly reading of 9.1 percent. The unemployment rate is expected to climb further to 6.8 to 7.7 percent by the fourth quarter of 2014—still well above participants’ estimates of the longer-run normal rate of unemployment. In short, while we still expect that economic activity and labor market conditions will improve gradually over time, the pace of progress is likely to be frustratingly slow. Moreover, there are significant downside risks to the economic outlook. Most notably, concerns about European fiscal and banking issues have contributed to strains in global financial markets, which 3 of 22 have likely had adverse effects on confidence and growth. European leaders have recently announced a number of steps to address those issues. We will continue to monitor European developments closely. I’ll turn now to the outlook for inflation. The prices of oil and other commodities rose sharply earlier this year. Consumer inflation consequently picked up over the first half of 2011, reflecting higher prices of gasoline, food, and other goods and services for which producers passed higher input costs along to their customers. In addition, prices of motor vehicles surged in response to the global supply disruptions associated with the disaster in Japan. However, inflation appears to have moderated as those transitory influences have waned, and as low levels of resource utilization constrain rises in prices and wages. Furthermore, survey measures and market indicators imply that longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consequently, the Committee anticipates that, over coming quarters, inflation will settle at or below its mandate-consistent rate of 2 percent or a bit less. Specifically, the central tendency of participants’ inflation projections is 2.7 to 2.9 percent for this year but declines to 1.4 to 2.0 percent in 2012 and remains subdued through 2014. The Committee will continue to pay close attention to the evolution of inflation and inflation expectations. The current economic outlook provides important context for understanding today’s policy decision. The Committee’s mandate from the Congress is to seek maximum employment and price stability. With unemployment well above normal levels and expected to decline only slowly, and with inflation expected to remain at or below mandate-consistent levels, the Committee decided today to maintain the current high degree of monetary policy accommodation. We will continue to assess the economic outlook in light of incoming 4 of 22 information, and we are prepared to employ our tools as appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context of price stability. Finally, I would like to note that the Committee strives to explain its monetary policy decisions as clearly as possible, and we continue to explore ways of enhancing the clarity of our public communications. Specifically, we have been engaging in a series of discussions about potential approaches to providing the public additional information about our monetary policy goals and policy strategy, as well as about our outlook for the economy and for the future stance of monetary policy. However, no decisions about such approaches were made at this meeting. Thank you for your patience, and I would be happy to take your questions.
