Good afternoon and welcome. In my opening remarks today, I’ll briefly review today’s policy decision. And I’ll place the decision in the context of our economic projections and our policy strategy. I’ll then be glad to take your questions. Throughout today’s briefing, my goal will be to reflect the consensus of the Committee while taking note of the diversity of views, as appropriate. Of course, my remarks and interpretations are my own responsibility. As indicated in the policy statement released earlier this afternoon, the Committee decided today to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent. The Committee continues to anticipate that economic conditions—including low rates of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation in the medium run—are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate for an extended period. The Committee’s planned purchases of $600 billion of longer-term Treasury securities will be completed by the end of this month, and the Committee will continue to reinvest principal payments from its securities holdings going forward. In conjunction with today’s meeting, the FOMC participants submitted projections for economic growth, the unemployment rate, and the inflation rate for the years 2011 to 2013 and over the longer run. These projections are conditional on each participant’s individual assessment of the appropriate path of monetary policy needed to best promote the Committee’s objectives. I’ll focus on the information shown in the figures that have been distributed. In each figure, the dark area denotes the central tendencies of our current projections, while the lighter shaded area denotes the full range of projections. The longer-run projections, shown at the right 1 of 22 of each figure, represent participants’ assessments of the rate to which each variable will converge over time under appropriate monetary policy and assuming no further shocks to the economy. The longer-run projections for output growth have a central tendency of 2.5 to 2.8 percent, and the longer-run projections for the unemployment rate have a central tendency of 5.2 to 5.6 percent—the same as in our April projections. These projections may be interpreted as indicating participants’ current estimates of the economy’s normal or trend rate of growth and its normal unemployment rate over the longer run respectively. It should be noted that these estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to revision, because longer-run rates of economic growth and unemployment are determined largely by nonmonetary factors that may evolve over time and that often cannot be directly measured. The central tendency of the longer-run projections for inflation, as measured by the price index for personal consumption expenditures, is 1.7 to 2.0 percent. Since the longer-run inflation outlook is determined almost entirely by monetary policy, these projections can be interpreted as indicating the inflation rate that each of the participants judge to be consistent with the Federal Reserve’s mandate of fostering maximum employment and stable prices. In effect, the “mandate consistent” inflation rate is judged to be 2 percent or a bit less. I now turn to the contours of the Committee’s economic outlook. As indicated in today’s policy statement, the economic recovery appears to be proceeding at a moderate pace, though somewhat more slowly than the Committee had expected, and some recent labor market indicators have also been weaker than expected. For example, the unemployment rate has risen by 0.3 percentage points since March, and new claims for unemployment insurance have moved somewhat higher. 2 of 22 The reduced pace of the recovery partly reflects factors that are likely to be temporary. In particular, consumers’ purchasing power has been damped by higher food and energy prices; and the aftermath of the tragic earthquake and tsunami in Japan has been associated with disruptions in global supply chains, especially in the auto sector. However, some moderation in gasoline prices is now in prospect, and the effects of the Japanese disaster on manufacturing output are likely to dissipate in coming months. Consequently, as shown in the first figure, entitled “Change in Real GDP,” the Committee expects that the pace of economic recovery will pick up over coming quarters. Specifically, participants’ projections for output growth have a central tendency of about 2.7 to 2.9 percent for this year and 3.3 to 3.7 percent for next year—growth rates faster than we have seen so far in 2011. However, Committee participants have also generally responded to the recent slowing by marking down the growth projections for 2011 and 2012, which are nearly a half percentage point lower than our April projections. Looking further ahead, the central tendency of the growth projections for 2012—2013, sorry—is 3.5 to 4.2 percent, essentially the same as in the April projections. As shown in the second figure, entitled “Unemployment Rate,” the unemployment rate is expected to resume its gradual decline towards levels that the Committee judges to be consistent with this dual mandate. In particular, the unemployment rate is projected to edge down over coming months to 8.6 to 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter of this year and then decline gradually over the subsequent two years to a level of 7.0 to 7.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013, still well above the central tendency of participants’ longer-run unemployment projections. In short, we expect the unemployment rate to continue to decline, but the pace of progress remains frustratingly slow. 3 of 22 Inflation has moved up in recent months, mainly reflecting higher prices for some commodities and imported goods. In addition, prices of motor vehicles have risen notably as a result of the recent supply chain disruptions. However, as the effects of these factors dissipate, the Committee anticipates that inflation will subside in coming quarters to levels at or below its mandate-consistent rate, as shown in the figure entitled “PCE Inflation.” Specifically, the central tendency of participants’ inflation projections is 2.3 to 2.5 percent for this year but declines to 1.5 to 2.0 percent in both 2012 and 2013—a trajectory that is broadly similar to that of our April projections. The economic outlook provides important policy context. In particular, the Committee’s policy strategy is intended to foster both aspects of our dual mandate—that is, promoting the economic recovery so that the unemployment rate returns over time to its longer-term normal level, and ensuring that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with our mandate. At 9.1 percent, the current unemployment rate remains elevated, and progress towards more normal levels of unemployment is likely to be slow, as I noted. Moreover, the inflation rate, which picked up in recent months, is expected to subside to levels at or below the rate of 2 percent, or a bit less, that most participants judge to be most consistent with the dual mandate. The ongoing labor market slack and the subdued inflation outlook are key reasons for the Committee’s decision to maintain the current high degree of monetary policy accommodation and for our judgment that exceptionally low levels of the funds rate are likely to be warranted for an extended period. Thank you. I’d be glad to take your questions.
