Good afternoon and welcome. In my opening remarks I will briefly review today’s policy decision by the Federal Open Market Committee. And then I’ll discuss next the consensus statement that has been distributed to you regarding the Committee’s longer-run policy goals and strategy. And finally, I’ll place today’s policy decision in the context of our economic projections and our assessments of the appropriate path of monetary policy. And I’ll then, of course, be glad to take your questions. As indicated in the statement released earlier this afternoon, to support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with our statutory mandate, the Committee expects to maintain a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy. In particular, the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent and currently anticipates that economic conditions are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least until late 2014. To provide support for the recovery in the context of price stability, the Committee will also continue the program that we announced in September to extend the average maturity of the Federal Reserve’s holdings of securities. Following careful deliberations, Committee participants have reached broad agreement on a statement that sets forth our longer-run goals and policy strategy. This statement should not be interpreted as indicating any change in how the Federal Reserve conducts monetary policy. Rather, its purpose is to increase the transparency and predictability of policy. There is today widespread agreement that clear and transparent central bank communications facilitate well-informed decisionmaking by households and businesses, reduce economic and financial 1 of 29 uncertainty, increase the effectiveness of monetary policy, and enhance accountability to the public. The statement begins by noting the Committee’s firm commitment to fulfill our statutory mandate of promoting maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates. Since monetary policy actions tend to influence economic activity and prices with a lag, our decisions appropriately reflect the Committee’s longer-run goals, our medium-term outlook, and our assessment of the balance of risks, including risks to the financial system that could impede the attainment of our goals. An important aspect of policy transparency is clarity about policy objectives. With respect to the objective of price stability, it is essential to recognize that the inflation rate over the longer run is primarily determined by monetary policy, and hence the Committee has the ability to specify a longer-run goal for inflation. The Committee judges that inflation at the rate of 2 percent, as measured by the annual change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures, is most consistent over the longer run with our statutory mandate. Over time, a higher inflation rate would reduce the public’s ability to make accurate longer-term economic and financial decisions, whereas a lower inflation rate would be associated with an elevated probability of falling into deflation, which can lead to significant economic problems. Clearly communicating to the public this 2 percent goal for inflation over the longer run should help foster price stability and moderate long-term interest rates and will enhance the Committee’s ability to promote maximum employment in the face of significant economic disturbances. Maximum employment stands on an equal footing with price stability as an objective of monetary policy. A difference with price stability is that the maximum level of employment in a given economy is largely determined by nonmonetary factors that affect the structure and 2 of 29 dynamics of the labor market, including demographic trends, the pace of technological innovation, and a variety of other influences, including a range of economic policies. Because monetary policy does not determine the maximum level of employment that the economy can sustain in the longer term, and since many of the determinants of maximum employment may change over time or may not be directly measurable, it is not feasible for any central bank to specify a fixed goal for the longer-run level of employment. Although the Committee cannot freely choose a longer-run goal for employment, it can estimate the level of maximum employment and use that estimate to inform its policy decisions. The Committee considers a wide range of indicators in making its assessments of maximum employment, recognizing that such assessments are necessarily uncertain and subject to revision over time. For example, in the latest set of projections that have been distributed to you, Committee participants’ estimates of the longer-run normal rate of unemployment have a central tendency of 5.2 percent to 6.0 percent—roughly unchanged from last January but higher than the corresponding interval several years ago. As I noted, the level of maximum employment is not immutable; in particular, it could be increased by effective policies, such as education and training that improve workforce skills. If the Committee’s assessments pointed to an increase in the maximum attainable level of employment, our policy strategy would be modified appropriately to aim at the higher level. In setting monetary policy, the Committee seeks to mitigate deviations of inflation from its mandate-consistent rate and deviations of employment from our assessments of its maximum level. These dual objectives are generally complementary. For example, under present circumstances, in which the unemployment rate is elevated and the inflation outlook is subdued, the Committee judges that sustaining a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy is 3 of 29 consistent with promoting both objectives. And in the longer term, low and stable inflation can help promote healthy growth in output and employment. Of course, circumstances may sometimes arise in which the dual objectives are not complementary. In such cases, the Committee follows a balanced approach in promoting these two objectives, taking into account the magnitude of the deviations and potentially different time horizons over which inflation and employment are projected to return to levels judged consistent with our mandate. In other words, the Committee always treats its primary objectives of price stability and maximum employment symmetrically, and the stance of policy at any given time is determined by the size, social cost, and expected evolution of the deviations of each of the Committee’s policy objectives from its desired level. I will now turn to the economic projections of the 17 FOMC participants—that is, 5 Board members and 12 Reserve Bank presidents—submitted in conjunction with today’s meeting. The central tendencies and ranges of those projections for the years 2011 to 2014 and over the longer run are depicted in the figures that have been distributed. The longer-run projections—shown at the right of each figure—represent participants’ assessments of the rate to which each variable will converge over time under appropriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks to the economy. Incoming information suggests that the economy has been expanding moderately, notwithstanding some slowing in global growth. The Committee expects the pace of economic growth to be, over coming quarters—to be moderate over coming quarters, reflecting ongoing drags from the housing sector and still-tight credit conditions for many households and smaller businesses. Specifically, participants’ projections for the growth rate of real gross domestic 4 of 29 product in 2012 have a central tendency of 2.2 to 2.7 percent. Strains in global financial markets continue to pose significant downside risks to that outlook. Looking further ahead, economic activity is expected to accelerate gradually in conjunction with strengthening consumer and business confidence, improving financial conditions, and the continuation of a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy. Specifically, participants’ GDP projections for 2013 have a central tendency of 2.8 to 3.2 percent, and their projections for 2014 have a central tendency of 3.3 to 4.0 percent, noticeably higher than the central tendency of 2.3 to 2.6 percent for their longer-run growth projections. A number of recent indicators point to some further improvement in overall labor market conditions, but the unemployment rate remains elevated. Moreover, in light of the anticipated modest pace of economic recovery, the Committee expects that over coming quarters the unemployment rate will decline only gradually toward its mandate-consistent levels. Indeed, participants’ projections for the unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of this year have a central tendency of 8.2 to 8.5 percent that is little different from the latest monthly reading of 8.5 percent. With economic growth expected to pick up somewhat over time, the unemployment rate is expected to decline to 6.7 to 7.6 percent by the fourth quarter of 2014—still well above participants’ estimates of the longer-run normal rate of unemployment. I’ll turn now to the outlook for inflation. The prices of oil and other commodities have generally flattened out or turned downward over the past couple of quarters, while low levels of resource utilization have continued to constrain the growth of labor costs. Consequently, consumer price inflation—which surged in the first half of last year—has been subdued in recent months. Survey measures and financial market indicators imply that longer-term inflation 5 of 29 expectations have remained stable. Over coming quarters, the Committee anticipates that inflation will run at or below levels consistent with the mandate-consistent rate of 2 percent. Specifically, participants’ inflation projections have a central tendency of 1.4 to 1.8 percent for 2012 and remain subdued at around 1½ to 2 percent through 2014. As a further step in enhancing the clarity of our communications, the Committee recently decided to begin publishing information about participants’ assessments of appropriate monetary policy—that is, the path of policy that each participant judges as most likely to foster mandate-consistent outcomes for employment and inflation if the economy evolves as expected. These judgments about future policy underlie the participants’ projections of growth, unemployment, and inflation that I just described. Rather—excuse me—Importantly, these policy assessments should not be viewed as unconditional pledges. Rather, just as with our economic projections, these policy projections reflect the information available at the time of the forecast and are subject to future revision in light of evolving economic and financial conditions. In the chart labeled “Appropriate Timing of Policy Firming,” each shaded bar indicates the number of Committee participants who judge that the initial increase in the target federal funds rate would appropriately occur in the specified calendar year shown below the bar. Six participants anticipate that policy firming is likely to commence in 2015 or 2016, while five others expect policy firming to commence in 2014. The remaining six participants judge that policy liftoff would be appropriate in 2012 or 2013. More detail is provided by the chart labeled “Appropriate Pace of Policy Firming.” In that chart, the dots depict the distribution of participants’ assessments regarding the appropriate level of the target federal funds rate at the end of each of the next several years and over the longer run. For example, based on current information, 11 participants expect that the 6 of 29 appropriate federal funds rate at the end of 2014 will be at or below 1 percent, while 6 participants anticipate higher rates at that time. In effect, those judgments are reflected in today’s meeting statement, in which the Committee indicated that economic conditions “are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through late 2014.” As I have noted, we are also proceeding with the program that we announced in September to extend the average maturity of the Federal Reserve’s holding of securities, thereby fostering more accommodative financial conditions without changing the overall size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet. The Committee regularly reviews the size and composition of our securities holdings, and we will adjust those holdings as appropriate. In particular, the Committee recognizes the hardships imposed by high and persistent unemployment and an underperforming economy, and it is prepared to provide further monetary accommodation if employment is not making sufficient progress toward our assessments of its maximum level or if inflation shows signs of moving further below its mandate-consistent rate. Thank you for your patience. I’ll be happy to take your questions.
