Good afternoon. Before we get to questions, I’ll summarize today’s policy action by the Federal Open Market Committee and then I’ll place the Committee’s policy decision in the context of our economic outlook and our collective judgment regarding the appropriate path of monetary policy. As indicated in the statement released earlier this afternoon, the Committee is maintaining the highly accommodative policies that we initiated at previous meetings. We decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to ¼ percent, and we continue to anticipate that economic conditions are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate at least through late 2014. Our program to extend the average maturity of the Federal Reserve’s security holdings—announced in September—will continue as scheduled. Each of these policy actions is intended to foster accommodative financial conditions that support the economic recovery in a context of price stability. In conjunction with today’s meeting, FOMC participants—the 5 Board members and the 12 Reserve Bank presidents—submitted their individual economic projections and policy assessments for the years 2012 to 2014 and over the long run. These projections serve as important inputs into the Committee’s deliberations. Incoming information suggests that the economy has been expanding moderately. Most Committee participants expect economic growth to remain moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up gradually. Among other factors, and not withstanding some signs of improvement, the ongoing weakness of the housing sector still represents a headwind for recovery. Strains in global financial markets, though less pronounced, generally, than last fall, continue to pose significant risks to the outlook. 1 of 23 Labor market conditions have improved in recent months, with the unemployment rate having fallen nearly a percentage point since August. However, at 8.2 percent, the unemployment rate remains elevated. Looking ahead, the Committee anticipates that the unemployment rate will decline gradually over the next several years, reflecting the moderate pace of economic growth. Specifically, participants’ projections for the unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of this year have a central tendency of 7.8 to 8.0 percent, declining to 6.7 to 7.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2014. For comparison, participants’ estimates of the longerrun normal rate of unemployment have a central tendency of 5.2 to 6.0 percent. Inflation has picked up somewhat, mainly reflecting higher gasoline prices. However, as has been the case for other recent swings in oil prices, the Committee expects that effect to be only temporary. Moreover, survey measures and financial market indicators continue to show stability in longer-term inflation expectations. Consequently, we anticipate that inflation will subsequently run at or below the Committee’s longer-run goal of 2 percent. In particular, participants’ projections of inflation have a central tendency of 1.9 to 2.0 percent for 2012 and 1.7 to 2.0 percent for 2014. The economic projections submitted by FOMC participants are conditioned on their individual assessments of the appropriate path of monetary policy. As you can see from the chart labeled “Appropriate Timing of Policy Firming,” Committee participants have a range of views about when the initial increase in the federal funds rate is likely to be appropriate. Following a careful discussion of those views at today’s meeting, the FOMC maintained its collective judgment that economic conditions will likely warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through late 2014. In particular, a highly accommodative stance of 2 of 23 monetary policy is warranted in light of the persistence of the factors restraining the pace of recovery and the ongoing risks to the economic outlook. Finally, the Committee took no new decisions regarding the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet today, but we remain prepared to adjust our securities holdings as appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in the context of price stability. Thank you. I’d be glad to take your questions.
