Good afternoon. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) concluded a two-day meeting earlier today. As you already know from our statement, the Committee decided, starting next month, to modestly reduce the pace at which it is increasing the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet. The Committee also clarified its guidance on interest rates, emphasizing that the current near-zero range for the federal funds rate target likely will remain appropriate well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6½ percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run goal. Today’s policy actions reflect the Committee’s assessment that the economy is continuing to make progress, but that it also has much farther to travel before conditions can be judged normal. Notably, despite significant fiscal headwinds, the economy has been expanding at a moderate pace, and we expect that growth will pick up somewhat in coming quarters, helped by highly accommodative monetary policy and waning fiscal drag. The job market has continued to improve, with the unemployment rate having declined further. At the same time, the recovery clearly remains far from complete, with unemployment still elevated and with both underemployment and long-term unemployment still major concerns. We have also seen ongoing declines in labor force participation, which likely reflect not only longer-term influences, such as the aging of the population, but also discouragement on the part of potential workers. Inflation has been running below the Committee’s longer-run objective of 2 percent. The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its objective could pose risks to economic performance and is monitoring inflation developments carefully for evidence that inflation will move back toward its objective over time. This outlook is broadly consistent with individual economic projections submitted in conjunction with this meeting by the 17 FOMC participants—5 Board members and 12 Reserve Bank presidents. As always, each participant’s projections are conditioned on his or her own view of appropriate monetary policy. FOMC participants generally expect economic growth to pick up somewhat over the next few years. Their projections for increases in gross domestic product have a central tendency of 2.2 to 2.3 percent for 2013, rising to between 2.8 and 3.2 percent for next year, with similar growth estimates for 2015 and 2016. Participants see the unemployment rate, which was 7 percent in November, as continuing to decline. The central tendency of the projections has the unemployment rate falling to between 6.3 and 6.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2014 and then to between 5.3 and 5.8 percent by the final quarter of 2016. Meanwhile, FOMC participants continue to see inflation running below our 2 percent objective for a time but moving gradually back toward 2 percent as the economy expands. The central tendency of their inflation projections for 2013 is 0.9 to 1.0 percent, rising to 1.4 to 1.6 percent for next year and to between 1.7 and 2.0 percent in 2016. Let me now return to our decision to reduce the pace of asset purchases. When we began the asset purchase program in September 2012, we said that we would continue purchases until the outlook for the labor market had improved substantially in a context of price stability. Since then, we have seen meaningful cumulative progress in the labor market. For example, since we began the current purchase program, the economy has added about 2.9 million jobs and the unemployment rate has fallen by more than a percentage point, to 7 percent. For comparison, when we started the program, many forecasters saw the unemployment rate remaining near 8 percent throughout 2014. Recent economic indicators have increased our confidence that the job market gains will continue. For example, nonfarm payrolls have recently been increasing at a pace of about 200,000 jobs per month, and the unemployment rate has fallen by 0.6 percentage point since June. With fiscal restraint likely diminishing and with signs that household spending is picking up, we expect economic growth to be strong enough to support further job gains. Further, FOMC participants now see the risks around their forecasts of growth and unemployment as having become more nearly balanced, rather than tilted in an unfavorable direction as they were at the inception of the asset purchase program. As you know, we have been purchasing $85 billion per month in longer-term Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities. Starting in January, we will be purchasing $75 billion of securities a month, reducing purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities by $5 billion each. It is important to note though that, even after this reduction, we will be still expanding our holdings of longer-term securities at a rapid pace. We will also continue to roll over maturing Treasury securities and reinvest principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities into agency mortgage-backed securities. Our sizable and still-increasing holdings will continue to put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and make financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote further progress in the labor market and help move inflation back toward the Committee’s objective of 2 percent. Our modest reduction in the pace of asset purchases reflects the Committee’s belief that progress toward its economic objectives will be sustained. If the incoming data broadly support the Committee’s outlook for employment and inflation, we will likely reduce the pace of securities purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. Of course, continued progress is by no means certain. Consequently, future adjustments to the pace of asset purchases will be deliberate and dependent on incoming information. Asset purchases remain a useful tool that we are prepared to deploy as needed to meet our objectives. With unemployment still well above its longer-run normal rate, which Committee participants currently estimate to be between 5.2 and 5.8 percent, and with inflation continuing to run below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-term objective, highly accommodative monetary policy remains appropriate. To emphasize its commitment to provide a high level of monetary accommodation for as long as needed, the FOMC today also enhanced its forward guidance. For the past year, the Committee has said that the current low target range for the federal funds rate would be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remained above 6½ percent, inflation was projected to be no more than half a percentage point above our 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations remained well anchored. We have emphasized that these numbers are thresholds, not triggers, meaning that crossing a threshold would not lead automatically to an increase in the federal funds rate but would indicate only that it was appropriate for the Committee to consider whether the broader economic outlook justified such an increase. With many FOMC participants now projecting that the 6½ percent unemployment threshold will be reached by the end of 2014, the Committee decided to provide additional information about how it expects its policies to evolve after the threshold is crossed. Based on its assessment of current conditions and the outlook, which is informed by a range of indicators, including measures of labor market conditions, financial conditions, and inflation pressures, the Committee now anticipates it will likely be appropriate to maintain the current federal funds rate target well past the time that the unemployment rate declines to below 6½ percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below its 2 percent goal. In part, this expectation reflects our assessment, based on a comprehensive set of indicators, that there will still be a substantial amount of slack in the labor market when the unemployment rate falls to 6½ percent. This continuing job market slack imposes heavy costs on the unemployed and the underemployed and their families and reduces our nation’s productive capacity, warranting our ongoing highly accommodative policy. But, as the last phrase of the enhanced guidance underscores, the prospects for inflation provide another reason to keep policy accommodative. The Committee is determined to avoid inflation that is too low as well as inflation that is too high, and it anticipates keeping rates low at least until it sees inflation clearly moving back toward its 2 percent objective. Our forward guidance is reflected in Committee participants’ latest projections for the path of the federal funds rate. Although the central tendency of the projected unemployment rate for the fourth quarter of next year encompasses 6½ percent, 15 of 17 FOMC participants do not expect a rate increase before 2015. Most see our target for the federal funds rate as rising only modestly in 2015, while 3 do not see an increase until 2016. For all participants, the median projection for the federal funds rate is 75 basis points at the end of 2015 and 1.75 percent at the end of 2016. In summary, reflecting cumulative progress and an improved outlook for the job market, the Committee decided today to modestly reduce the monthly pace at which it is adding to the longer-term securities on its balance sheet. If incoming information supports the Committee’s expectation of further progress toward its objectives, the Committee is likely to reduce the pace of monthly purchases in further measured steps in future meetings. However, the process will be deliberate and data-dependent; asset purchases are not on a preset course. The FOMC also provided additional guidance on future short-term interest rates, stating that it expects to maintain the federal funds target in its current near-zero range well past the time that the unemployment rate falls below 6½ percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below 2 percent. The Federal Reserve’s enhanced guidance about its policy intentions and its substantial and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities will ensure that monetary policy remains highly accommodative, consistent with the pursuit of its mandated objectives of maximum employment and price stability. Thank you. I’ll be glad to take your questions.
