Good afternoon. The Federal Open Market Committee concluded its last meeting of the year earlier today. As indicated in our policy statement, the FOMC “reaffirmed its view that the current 0 to ¼ percent target range for the federal funds rate remains appropriate.” The Committee also updated its forward guidance for the federal funds rate, indicating that “the Committee judges that it can be patient in beginning to normalize the stance of monetary policy.” This new language does not represent a change in our policy intentions and is fully consistent with our previous guidance, which stated that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the end of our asset purchase program. But with that program having ended in October, and the economy continuing to make progress toward our objectives, the Committee judged that some modification to our guidance is appropriate at this time. I will have more to say about our policy decisions in a moment, but first let me review recent economic developments and the outlook. In the labor market, progress continues toward the FOMC’s objective of maximum employment. The pace of job growth has been strong recently, with job gains averaging nearly 280,000 per month over the past 3 months; over the past 12 months, job gains averaged nearly 230,000 per month. The unemployment rate was 5.8 percent in November, three-tenths lower than the latest reading available at the time of the September FOMC meeting. Broader measures of labor market utilization have shown similar improvement, and the labor force participation rate has leveled out. As noted in the FOMC statement, “underutilization of labor resources continues to diminish.” Even so, there is room for further improvement, with too many people who want jobs being unable to find them, too many who are working part time but would prefer full-time work, and too many who have given up searching for a job but would likely do so if the labor market were stronger. The Committee continues to see sufficient underlying strength in the economy to support ongoing improvement in the labor market. Real GDP looks to have increased robustly in the third quarter, reflecting solid consumption and investment spending. Smoothing through the quarterly ups and downs earlier this year, real GDP expanded around 2½ percent over the four quarters ending in the third quarter, and the available indicators suggest that economic growth is running at roughly that pace in the current quarter. The Committee continues to expect a moderate pace of growth going forward. Inflation has continued to run below the Committee’s 2 percent objective, and the recent sizable declines in oil prices will likely hold down overall inflation in the near term. But as the effects of these oil price declines and other transitory factors dissipate and as resource utilization continues to rise, the Committee expects inflation to move gradually back toward its objective. In making this forecast, the Committee is mindful of the recent declines in market-based measures of inflation compensation. At this point, the Committee views these movements as likely to prove transitory, and survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. That said, developments in this area obviously bear close watching. This outlook is reflected in the individual economic projections submitted in conjunction with this meeting by the FOMC participants. As always, each participant’s projections are conditioned on his or her own view of appropriate monetary policy. The central tendency of the unemployment rate projections is slightly lower than in the September projections and now stands at 5.2 to 5.3 percent at the end of next year, in line with its estimated longer-run normal level. Committee participants generally see the unemployment rate declining a little further over the course of 2016 and 2017. The central tendency of the projections for real GDP growth is 2.3 to 2.4 percent for 2014, up a bit from the September projections. Over the next three years, the projections for real GDP growth run somewhat above the estimates of longer-run normal growth. Finally, although FOMC participants project inflation in the near term to be lower on account of the decline in energy prices, they continue to see inflation moving gradually back toward 2 percent. The central tendency of the inflation projections is 1.0 to 1.6 percent next year, rising to 1.8 to 2.0 percent in 2017. As I noted earlier, the Committee “reaffirmed its view that the current 0 to ¼ percent target range for the federal funds rate remains appropriate.” Regarding forward guidance for the federal funds rate, our October statement indicated that it likely would be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time following the end of our asset purchase program, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run goal. Today’s statement, which indicates that “the Committee judges that it can be patient in beginning to normalize the stance of monetary policy,” does not signify any change in the Committee’s policy intentions as set forth in its recent statements. As before, this judgment is based on the Committee’s assessment of realized and expected progress toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation—an assessment that is based on a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. Given that the Committee is not signaling a change in policy, why did we update our guidance? The reason is that, with the asset purchase program having been wound down in October, it seemed less helpful to continue to communicate about the possible timing of our first rate increase with reference to an event that is receding into the past. Instead, we have shifted to language that better reflects the Committee’s focus on the economic conditions that would make liftoff appropriate. Employment is rising at a healthy rate and the U.S. economy is strengthening, reflecting, in part, a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy. Of course, inflation has been running somewhat below our goal of 2 percent, but we project that gap to close gradually over time. As progress in achieving maximum employment and 2 percent inflation continues, at some point it will become appropriate to begin reducing policy accommodation. But, based on its current outlook, the Committee judges that it can be patient in doing so. In particular, the Committee considers it unlikely to begin the normalization process for at least the next couple of meetings. This assessment, of course, is completely data dependent. If incoming information indicates faster progress toward the Committee’s employment and inflation objectives than the Committee now expects, then increases in the target range for the federal funds rate are likely to occur sooner than currently anticipated. Conversely, if progress proves slower than expected, then increases in the target range are likely to occur later than currently anticipated. Once we begin to remove policy accommodation, it continues to be the Committee’s assessment that, “even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run.” This guidance is consistent with the paths for appropriate policy given by FOMC participants. Assuming that the economy evolves broadly in line with participants’ expectations, almost all participants believe that it will be appropriate to begin raising the target range for the federal funds rate in 2015. There are a range of views on the appropriate timing of liftoff within the year, in part reflecting differences in participants’ expectations for how the economy will evolve. By the time of liftoff, participants expect to see some further decline in the unemployment rate and additional improvement in labor market conditions. They also expect core inflation to be running near current levels but foresee being reasonably confident in their expectation that inflation will move back toward our 2 percent longer-run inflation objective over time. Of course, as I previously emphasized, the timing of the initial rise in the federal funds rate target, as well as the path for the target thereafter, are contingent on economic conditions. By late 2016, the median projection for the federal funds rate, at 2.5 percent, remains more than 1 percentage point below the longer-run value of 3¾ percent or so projected by most participants, even though the central tendency of the unemployment rate by that time is slightly below its estimated longer-run value and the central tendency for inflation is close to our 2 percent objective. FOMC participants provide a number of explanations for the federal funds rate running below its normal longer-run level at that time—in particular, the residual effects of the financial crisis, which are likely to continue to constrain household spending and constrain credit availability for some time. But as these factors dissipate further, most participants expect the federal funds rate to move close to its longer-run normal level by the end of 2017. Finally, the Committee will continue its policy of reinvesting proceeds from maturing Treasury securities and principal payments from holdings of agency debt and MBS. The Committee’s sizable holdings of longer-term securities should help maintain accommodative financial conditions and promote further progress toward our objectives of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. Thank you, and I’ll be happy to take your questions.
