Good afternoon. The Federal Open Market Committee concluded its meeting earlier today and, as usual, released its monetary policy statement. The Committee also released a document describing the approach the Committee intends to take when, at some point in the future, it becomes appropriate to begin normalizing the stance of policy. Let me underscore that our release of this information is not meant to convey any change in the stance of policy. As you know, the FOMC’s views on policy are conveyed in the policy statement, which I will now discuss before coming back to our normalization plans. As indicated in our policy statement, the FOMC decided to make another reduction in the pace of its asset purchases. The Committee also maintained its forward guidance regarding the federal funds rate target and reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. Let me discuss the economic conditions that underpin these actions. The economy is continuing to make progress toward the FOMC’s objective of maximum sustainable employment. In the labor market, conditions have improved further in recent months. Although the pace of job growth has slowed some recently, job gains have averaged more than 200,000 per month over the past three months. The unemployment rate was 6.1 percent in August, two-tenths lower than the data available at the time of the June FOMC meeting. Broader measures of labor market utilization, such as the U-6 measure, have shown similar improvement, and the labor force participation rate has flattened out. These developments continue the trend of gradual progress toward our employment objective. But the labor market has yet to fully recover. There are still too many people who want jobs but cannot find them, too many who are working part time but would prefer full-time work, and too many who are not searching for a job but would be if the labor market were stronger. As noted in the FOMC statement, “a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources.” The Committee continues to see sufficient underlying strength in the economy to support ongoing improvement in the labor market. Although real GDP rose at an annual rate of only about 1 percent in the first half of the year, that modest gain reflected, in part, transitory factors, including a dip in net exports. Indeed, private domestic final demand—that is, spending by domestic households and businesses—grew about twice as fast as GDP. Indicators of spending and production for the third quarter suggest that economic activity is expanding at a moderate pace, and the Committee continues to expect a moderate pace of growth going forward. Inflation has been running below the Committee’s 2 percent objective, but with longerterm inflation expectations appearing to be well anchored and the economic recovery continuing, the Committee expects inflation to move gradually back toward its objective. Moreover, inflation has firmed some since earlier in the year, and the Committee believes that the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent has diminished. As is always the case, the Committee will continue to assess incoming data carefully to ensure that policy is consistent with attaining the FOMC’s longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. This outlook is reflected in the individual economic projections submitted in conjunction with this meeting by the FOMC participants, which, for the first time, go through 2017. As always, each participant’s projections are conditioned on his or her own view of appropriate monetary policy. The central tendency of the unemployment rate projections is slightly lower than in the June projections and now stands at 5.9 to 6.0 percent at the end of this year. Committee participants generally see the unemployment rate declining to its longer-run normal level over the course of 2016 and edging a bit below that level in 2017. The central tendency of the projections for real GDP growth is 2.0 to 2.2 percent for 2014, down slightly from the June projections. Over the next three years, the projections for real GDP growth run somewhat above the estimates of longer-run normal growth. Finally, FOMC participants continue to see inflation moving gradually back toward 2 percent. The central tendency of the inflation projections is 1.5 to 1.7 percent in 2014, rising to 1.9 to 2 percent in 2017. As I noted earlier, the Committee decided today to make another reduction in the pace of asset purchases. Two years ago, when the FOMC began this purchase program, the unemployment rate stood at 8.1 percent, and progress in lowering it was expected to be much slower than desired without additional policy accommodation. The intent of the program was to achieve a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market and to ensure that inflation was moving back toward the Committee’s longer-run goal of 2 percent. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions since the inception of the program, and with the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent having diminished somewhat, we have reduced our pace of asset purchases again at this meeting. Starting next month, we will be purchasing $15 billion of securities per month, down $10 billion per month from our current rate. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee’s expectation of ongoing improvement in the labor market and inflation moving back over time toward its 2 percent longer-run objective, the Committee will end this program at our next meeting. The Committee will continue its policy of reinvesting proceeds from maturing Treasury securities and principal payments from holdings of agency debt and MBS. The Committee’s sizable holdings of longer-term securities should help maintain accommodative financial conditions and promote further progress toward our objectives of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. Regarding interest rates, the Committee reaffirmed its forward guidance “that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored.” This judgment is based on the Committee’s assessment of realized and expected progress toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation—an assessment that is based on a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. Further, once we begin to remove policy accommodation, it is the Committee’s current assessment that, even after employment and inflation are near mandateconsistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. This guidance is consistent with the paths for appropriate policy as reported in the participants’ projections. As I will explain in a moment, the FOMC now anticipates that it will continue to establish a target range, rather than a single point, for the federal funds rate when normalization begins, and the dots in the chart I’ve distributed now show, for each participant, the midpoint of this target range. Notably, although the central tendency of the unemployment rate in late 2016 is slightly below its estimated longer-run value, and the central tendency for inflation is close to our 2 percent objective, the median projection for the federal funds rate at the end of 2016, at 2.9 percent, remains nearly a percentage point below the longer-run value of 3¾ percent or so projected by most participants. Although FOMC participants provide a number of explanations for the federal funds rate running below its longer-run normal level at that time, many cite the residual effects of the financial crisis, which, although slowly diminishing, are likely to continue to restrain household spending, constrain credit availability, and depress expectations for future growth in output and incomes. As these factors dissipate further, most participants expect the federal funds rate to move close to its longer-run normal level by the end of 2017. Let me reiterate, however, that the Committee’s expectations for the path of the federal funds rate are contingent on the economic outlook. If the economy proves to be stronger than anticipated by the Committee, resulting in a more rapid convergence of employment and inflation to the FOMC’s objectives, then increases in the federal funds rate are likely to occur sooner and to be more rapid than currently envisaged. Conversely, if economic performance disappoints, increases in the federal funds rate are likely to take place later and to be more gradual. Let me now turn to our statement on “Policy Normalization Principles and Plans.” This statement is intended to provide information to the public about the eventual normalization process; it does not signal a change in the current or future stance of monetary policy. As is always the case in setting policy, the FOMC will determine the timing and pace of policy normalization so as to promote its statutory mandate of maximum employment and price stability. Since the crisis, the Federal Reserve has been providing extraordinary accommodation using nontraditional tools of monetary policy. The FOMC’s intention has always been to return to a more traditional approach, and throughout this period, the Committee has been preparing for the normalization process. In June 2011, the Committee set out some broad principles and some more specific tactics for how it envisioned the normalization process to take place. In June 2013, we noted that conditions had changed significantly in ways not anticipated in June of 2011, including the size and composition of the Fed’s balance sheet, and that some revision of those earlier plans was appropriate. The document released today reflects our updated plans, which, readers of our minutes will know, have been under discussion for the last few FOMC meetings. The new approach retains many broad objectives and principles from the original but also has some new elements. As was the case before the crisis, the Committee intends to adjust the stance of monetary policy during normalization primarily through actions that influence the level of the federal funds rate and other short-term interest rates, not through active management of the balance sheet. The federal funds rate will serve as the key rate to communicate the stance of policy. To begin normalization, the Committee will raise its target range for the federal funds rate. The Committee expects that the effective federal funds rate may vary within the target range, and could even move outside of that range on occasion, but such movements should have no material effect on financial conditions or the broader economy. The primary tool for moving the federal funds rate into the target range will be the rate of interest paid on excess reserves, or IOER. The Committee expects that the federal funds rate will trade below the IOER rate while reserves are so plentiful, as is the case at present. The Committee also intends to use an overnight reverse repurchase agreement facility, which, by transacting with a broad set of counterparties, will help ensure that the federal funds rate remains in the target range. I would like to emphasize that the overnight RRP facility will only be used to the extent necessary and will be phased out when no longer needed to help control the federal funds rate. In addition, the Committee will adjust the particular settings of these tools as needed, and could deploy other supplementary tools as well, to ensure that we achieve our desired stance of policy. Turning now to our plans regarding the Fed’s balance sheet, the Committee intends to reduce securities holdings in a gradual and predictable manner, primarily by ceasing to reinvest repayments of principal on securities held in the System Open Market Account. Regarding the timing for ceasing reinvestments, the Committee now expects this to occur after the initial increase in the target range for the federal funds rate. The Committee currently does not anticipate selling agency mortgage-backed securities as part of the normalization process, although limited sales might be warranted in the longer run to reduce or eliminate residual holdings. The timing and pace of such sales would be communicated to the public in advance. It’s the Committee’s intention that the Federal Reserve will, in the longer run, hold no more securities than necessary to implement monetary policy efficiently and effectively, and that these securities will primarily consist of Treasury securities. As I stated earlier, today’s release of the Committee’s updated normalization plans is in no way intended to signal a change in the stance of monetary policy. Rather, it is meant simply to provide information about how the Committee envisions the normalization process in light of the changes in economic and financial circumstances that have occurred since we put forth our original plans more than three years ago. That said, conditions could change further, and we will learn about our tools during normalization. The Committee has agreed that it is prepared to make additional adjustments to its normalization plans if warranted by economic and financial developments. Thank you. Let me stop there. I’ll be happy to take your questions.
