Good afternoon. Today, the Federal Open Market Committee maintained the target range for the federal funds rate at ¼ to ½ percent. This accommodative policy should support further progress toward our statutory objectives of maximum employment and price stability. Based on the economic outlook, the Committee continues to anticipate that gradual increases in the federal funds rate over time are likely to be consistent with achieving and maintaining our objectives. However, recent economic indicators have been mixed, suggesting that our cautious approach to adjusting monetary policy remains appropriate. As always, our policy is not on a preset course, and if the economic outlook shifts, the appropriate path of policy will shift correspondingly. I will come back to our policy decision, but first I will review recent economic developments and the outlook. Economic growth was relatively weak late last year and early this year. Some of the factors weighing on growth were expected. For example, exports have been soft, reflecting subdued foreign demand and the earlier appreciation of the dollar. Also, activity in the energy sector has obviously been hard hit by the steep drop in oil prices since mid-2014. But the slowdown in other parts of the economy was not expected. In particular, business investment outside of energy was particularly weak during the winter and appears to have remained so into the spring. In addition, growth in household spending slowed noticeably early in the year despite solid increases in household income as well as relatively high levels of consumer sentiment and wealth. Fortunately, the first-quarter slowdown in household spending appears to have been temporary; indicators for the second quarter have so far pointed to a sizable rebound. This recovery is a key factor supporting the Committee’s expectation that overall economic activity will expand at a moderate pace over the next few years. Despite lackluster economic growth, the job market continued to improve early in the year. During the first quarter, job gains averaged nearly 200,000 per month, just a bit slower than last year’s pace. And the unemployment rate held near 5 percent even though notably more people were actively looking for work. However, more recently the pace of improvement in the labor market appears to have slowed markedly. Job gains in April and May are estimated to have averaged only about 80,000 per month. And while the unemployment rate fell to 4.7 percent in May, that decline occurred because fewer people reported that they were actively seeking work. A broader measure of unemployment that includes individuals who want and are available to work but have not searched recently as well as people who are working part time but would rather work full time has flattened out. On a more positive note, average hourly earnings increased 2½ percent over the past 12 months—a bit faster than in earlier years and a welcome indication that wage growth may finally be picking up. Although recent labor market data have, on balance, been disappointing, it’s important not to overreact to one or two monthly readings. The Committee continues to expect that the labor market will strengthen further over the next few years. That said, we will be watching the job market carefully. Ongoing economic growth and an improving labor market underpin our inflation outlook. Overall consumer price inflation—as measured by the price index for personal consumption expenditures—was about 1 percent over the 12 months ending in April, still short of our 2 percent objective. Much of this shortfall continues to reflect the effects of earlier declines in energy prices and lower prices for imports. Core inflation, which excludes energy and food prices, has been running close to 1½ percent. As the transitory influences holding down inflation fade, and as the labor market strengthens further, the Committee expects inflation to rise to 2 percent over the next two to three years. Our inflation outlook also rests importantly on our judgment that longer-run inflation expectations remain reasonably well anchored. However, we can’t take the stability of longerrun inflation expectations for granted. While most survey measures of longer-run inflation expectations show little change, on balance, in recent months, financial market measures of inflation compensation have declined. Movements in these indicators reflect many factors and therefore may not provide an accurate reading on changes in the inflation expectations that are most relevant for wages and prices. Nonetheless, in considering future policy decisions, we will continue to carefully monitor actual and expected progress toward our inflation goal. Let me now turn to the individual economic projections submitted for this meeting by FOMC participants. As always, each participant’s projections are conditioned on his or her own view of appropriate monetary policy, which, in turn, depends on each person’s assessment of the multitude of factors that shape the outlook. Participants’ projections for growth of inflationadjusted gross domestic product are slightly lower in the near term than the projections made for the March FOMC meeting. The median growth projection now remains at 2 percent through 2018, in line with its estimated longer-run rate. The median projection for the unemployment rate edges down from 4.7 percent at the end of this year to 4.6 percent in the next two years, somewhat below the median assessment of the longer-run normal unemployment rate. The median path of the unemployment rate is little changed from March. Finally, the median inflation projection stands at 1.4 percent this year, a bit firmer than in March, and then rises to 1.9 percent next year and 2 percent in 2018. Returning to monetary policy, as I said, the Committee maintained its target range for the federal funds rate. This decision reflects the Committee’s careful approach in setting monetary policy, particularly in light of the mixed readings on the labor market and economic growth that I have discussed as well as continuing below-target inflation. Proceeding cautiously in raising our interest rate target will allow us to verify that economic growth will return to a moderate pace, that the labor market will strengthen further, and that inflation will continue to make progress toward our 2 percent objective. Caution is all the more appropriate given that short-term interest rates are still near zero, which means that monetary policy can more effectively respond to surprisingly strong inflation pressures in the future than to a weakening labor market and falling inflation. Although the financial market stresses that emanated from abroad at the start of this year have eased, vulnerabilities in the global economy remain. In the current environment of sluggish global growth, low inflation, and already very accommodative monetary policy in many advanced economies, investor perceptions of, and appetite for, risk can change abruptly. As our statement notes, we will continue to closely monitor global economic and financial developments. We continue to expect that the evolution of the economy will warrant only gradual increases in the federal funds rate. We expect the rate to remain, for some time, below levels that are anticipated to prevail in the longer run because headwinds weighing on the economy mean that the interest rate needed to keep the economy operating near its potential is low by historical standards. These headwinds—which include developments abroad, subdued household formation, and meager productivity growth—could persist for some time. But, if they gradually fade over the next few years as we expect, then the interest rate required to keep the economy operating at an even keel should move higher as well. This view is consistent with participants’ projections of appropriate monetary policy. The median projection for the federal funds rate rises only gradually to 1½ percent at the end of next year and 2½ percent by the end of 2018, somewhat below its estimated longer-run normal level. Although the median federal funds rate at the end of this year is unchanged from March, a number of participants revised down their projections. For 2017 and 2018, the median projection is ¼ to ½ percentage point lower than in March, roughly in line with the ¼ percentage point downward revision made to the estimated longer-run level of the federal funds rate. As I have noted on previous occasions, participants’ projections for the federal funds rate, including the median path, are not a fixed plan for future policy. Policy is not on a preset course. These forecasts represent participants’ individual assessments of appropriate policy given their projections of economic growth, employment, inflation, and other factors. However, the economic outlook is inherently uncertain, so each participant’s assessment of appropriate policy is also necessarily uncertain, especially at longer time horizons, and will change in response to changes to the economic outlook and associated risks. Finally, the Committee will continue its policy of reinvesting proceeds from maturing Treasury securities and principal payments from agency debt and mortgage-backed securities. As highlighted in our policy statement, we anticipate continuing this policy until normalization of the level of the federal funds rate is well under way. Maintaining our sizable holdings of longer-term securities should help maintain accommodative financial conditions and should reduce the risk that we might have to lower the federal funds rate to zero in the event of a future large adverse shock. Thank you, I will be happy to take your questions.
