Good afternoon. Before I get started, I just want to say that our thoughts are with those who were injured this morning. Today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point, bringing it to 1 to 1¼ percent. Our decision to make another gradual reduction in the amount of policy accommodation reflects the progress the economy has made, and is expected to make, toward maximum employment and price stability objectives assigned to us by law. We also released today, as an addendum to our Policy Normalization Principles and Plans, additional information on the process that we will follow in normalizing the size of our balance sheet once we determine that it is appropriate to begin doing so. I’ll have more to say about our interest rate decision and our balance sheet policy, but first I’ll review recent economic developments and the outlook. Following a slowdown in the first quarter, economic growth appears to have rebounded, resulting in a moderate pace of growth so far this year. Household spending, which was particularly soft earlier this year, has been supported by solid fundamentals, including ongoing improvement in the job market and relatively high levels of consumer sentiment and wealth. Business investment, which was weak for much of last year, has continued to expand. And exports have shown greater strength this year, in part reflecting a pickup in global growth. Overall, we continue to expect that the economy will expand at a moderate pace over the next few years. In the labor market, job gains have averaged about 160,000 per month since the start of the year—a solid rate of growth that, although a little slower than last year, remains well above estimates of the pace necessary to absorb new entrants to the labor force. The unemployment rate has fallen about ½ percentage point since the beginning of the year and was 4.3 percent in May, a low level by historical standards and modestly below the median of FOMC participants’ estimates of its longer-run normal level. Broader measures of labor market utilization have also improved this year. Participation in the labor force has been little changed, on net, for about three years. Given the underlying downward trend in participation stemming largely from the aging of the U.S. population, a relatively steady participation rate is a further sign of improving conditions in the labor market. Looking ahead, we expect that the job market will strengthen somewhat further. Turning to inflation, the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures was 1.7 percent in April, up from less than 1 percent last summer but down somewhat over the past few months. Core inflation—which excludes the volatile food and energy categories and tends to be a better indicator of future inflation—has also edged lower. The recent lower readings on inflation have been driven significantly by what appear to be oneoff reductions in certain categories of prices, such as wireless telephone services and prescription drugs. These price declines will, as a matter of arithmetic, restrain the 12-month inflation figures until the extraordinarily low March reading drops out of the calculation. However, with employment near its maximum sustainable level and the labor market continuing to strengthen, the Committee still expects inflation to move up and stabilize around 2 percent over the next couple of years, in line with our longer-run objective. Nonetheless, in light of the softer recent inflation readings, the Committee is monitoring inflation developments closely. Let me now turn to the economic projections that Committee participants submitted for this meeting. As always, participants conditioned their projections on their own individual views of appropriate monetary policy, which, in turn, depend on each participant’s assessment of the many factors that shape the outlook. The median projection for growth of inflation-adjusted gross domestic product, or real GDP, is 2.2 percent this year and edges down to 1.9 percent by 2019, slightly above its estimated longer-run rate. The median projection for the unemployment rate stands at 4.3 percent in the fourth quarter of this year and ticks down to 4.2 percent in 2018 and 2019, modestly below the median estimate of its longer-run normal rate. Finally, the median inflation projection is 1.6 percent this year and rises to 2 percent in 2018 and 2019. Compared with the projections made in March, real GDP growth is little changed, the unemployment rate follows a moderately lower path, and inflation—although marked down this year for reasons I mentioned earlier—is unchanged over the following two years. In addition, the median estimate of the longer-run normal unemployment rate moved down a tenth to 4.6 percent. Returning to monetary policy, for the past year and a half the FOMC has been gradually increasing its target range for the federal funds rate as the economy has continued to make progress toward our goals of maximum employment and price stability. Our decision today continues this process. We continue to expect that the ongoing strength of the economy will warrant gradual increases in the federal funds rate to sustain a healthy labor market and stabilize inflation around our 2 percent longer-run objective. That’s based on our view that the federal funds rate remains somewhat below its neutral level—that is, the level of the federal funds rate that is neither expansionary nor contractionary and keeps the economy operating on an even keel. Because the neutral rate is currently quite low by historical standards, the federal funds rate would not have to rise all that much further to get to a neutral policy stance. But because we also expect the neutral level of the federal funds rate to rise somewhat over time, additional gradual rate hikes are likely to be appropriate over the next few years to sustain the economic expansion. Even so, the Committee continues to anticipate that the longer-run neutral level of the federal funds rate is likely to remain below levels that prevailed in previous decades. This view is consistent with participants’ projections of appropriate monetary policy. The median projection for the federal funds rate is 1.4 percent at the end of this year, 2.1 percent at the end of next year, and 2.9 percent at the end of 2019, about in line with its estimated longerrun value. Compared with the projections made in March, the median path for the federal funds rate is essentially unchanged. As always, the economic outlook is highly uncertain, and participants will adjust their assessments of the appropriate path for the federal funds rate in response to changes to their economic outlooks and views of the risks to their outlooks. As I’ve noted previously, policy is not on a preset course. Let me now turn to our balance sheet. As I noted in our policy statement, we are continuing to maintain the size of our balance sheet by reinvesting proceeds from maturing Treasury securities and principal payments from agency debt and mortgage-backed securities. Provided that the economy evolves broadly as the Committee anticipates, we currently expect to begin implementing a balance sheet normalization program this year. Consistent with the principles and plans we released in 2014, this program would gradually decrease our reinvestments and initiate a gradual and largely predictable decline in our securities holdings. The addendum to our Policy Normalization Principles and Plans that we released today provides further information. For both Treasury and agency securities, we will reinvest proceeds from our holdings only to the extent that they exceed gradually rising caps on the reductions in our securities holdings. Initially, these caps will be set at relatively low levels—$6 billion per month for Treasuries and $4 billion per month for agencies. So, any proceeds exceeding those amounts would be reinvested. These caps will gradually rise over the course of a year to maximums of $30 billion per month for Treasuries and $20 billion per month for agency securities and will remain in place through the normalization process. By limiting the volume of securities that private investors will have to absorb as we reduce our holdings, the caps should guard against outsized moves in interest rates and other potential market strains. As I previously noted, when our securities holdings begin to gradually decline, so too will the supply of reserve balances in the banking system. At some point, probably a few years down the road, the Committee will bring the decline in our balance sheet to an end as the quantity of reserves is normalized. I can’t tell you what the longer-run normal level of reserve balances will be because that will depend on the Committee’s eventual decisions about how to implement monetary policy most efficiently and effectively in the longer run, as well as a number of as-yet unknown elements, including the banking system’s future demand for reserves and various factors that may affect the daily supply of reserves. What I can tell you is that we anticipate reducing reserve balances and our overall balance sheet to levels appreciably below those seen in recent years but larger than before the financial crisis. As readers of our minutes know, the Committee has on previous occasions discussed potential long-run frameworks for implementing monetary policy. Decisions about the appropriate long-run framework do not need to be made for quite some time, and our future deliberations will benefit from the experience we will gain during the normalization process. At this point, I’ll just point out that our current system is working well and has some important advantages. In particular, it is simple and efficient to operate, does not require active management of the supply of reserves, and, most importantly, provides good control over the federal funds rate and effective transmission of changes in the federal funds rate to broader money market rates. And because our current system is likely compatible with a much smaller quantity of reserves, our plan for gradually reducing our balance sheet does not constrain the Committee’s future options for how to implement monetary policy. Finally, as noted in today’s addendum, the Committee affirmed that changing the target range for the federal funds rate is our primary means of adjusting the stance of monetary policy. In other words, the balance sheet is not intended to be an active tool for monetary policy in normal times. However, the Committee would be prepared to resume reinvestments if a material deterioration in the economic outlook were to warrant a sizable reduction in the federal funds rate. More generally, the Committee would be prepared to use its full range of tools, including altering the size and composition of its balance sheet, if future economic conditions were to warrant a more accommodative monetary policy than can be achieved solely by reducing the federal funds rate. Thank you. I’ll now be happy to take your questions.
