Good afternoon. Today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point, bringing it to 1¼ to 1½ percent. Our decision reflects our assessment that a gradual removal of monetary policy accommodation will sustain a strong labor market while fostering a return of inflation to 2 percent, consistent with the maximum employment and price stability objectives assigned to us by law. Before saying more about our decision, I’ll review recent economic developments and the outlook. Following a slowdown in the first quarter, economic growth stepped up to a solid 3¼ percent pace in the second and third quarters of the year. Household spending has been expanding at a moderate rate, business investment has picked up, and favorable economic conditions abroad have supported exports. Overall, we continue to expect that the economy will expand at a moderate pace. While changes in tax policy will likely provide some lift to economic activity in coming years, the magnitude and timing of the macroeconomic effects of any tax package remain uncertain. Smoothing through hurricane-related fluctuations, job gains averaged 170,000 per month over the three months ending in November, well above estimates of the pace necessary to absorb new entrants to the labor force. The unemployment rate has declined further in recent months and, at 4.1 percent in November, was modestly below the median of FOMC participants’ estimates of its longer-run normal level. Broader measures of labor market utilization have also continued to strengthen. Participation in the labor force has changed little, on net, over the past four years. Given the underlying downward trend in participation stemming largely from the aging of the U.S. population, a relatively steady participation rate is a further sign of improved conditions in the labor market. We expect that the job market will remain strong in the years ahead. You may have noticed that we altered the statement language about the labor market outlook. This change highlights that the Committee expects the labor market to remain strong, with sustained job creation, ample opportunities for workers, and rising wages. We anticipate some further strengthening in labor market conditions in the months ahead; however, we expect the pace of job gains to moderate over time as we gradually reduce the degree of monetary policy accommodation. Allowing the labor market to overheat would raise the risk that monetary policy would need to tighten abruptly at a later stage, jeopardizing the economic expansion. Even with a firming of economic growth and a stronger labor market, inflation has continued to run below the FOMC’s 2 percent longer-run objective. The 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures was 1.6 percent in October, up a bit from the summer but still below rates seen earlier in the year. Core inflation—which excludes the volatile food and energy categories—has followed a similar pattern and was 1.4 percent in October. We continue to believe that this year’s surprising softness in inflation primarily reflects transitory developments that are largely unrelated to broader economic conditions. As a result, we still expect inflation will move up and stabilize around 2 percent over the next couple of years. Nonetheless, as I’ve noted previously, our understanding of the forces driving inflation is imperfect. As emphasized in our statement, we will carefully monitor actual and expected inflation developments relative to our symmetric inflation goal. And, as I’ve noted before, we are prepared to adjust monetary policy as needed to achieve our inflation and employment objectives over the medium term. Let me turn to the economic projections that Committee participants submitted for this meeting. As always, participants conditioned their projections on their own individual views of appropriate monetary policy, which, in turn, depend on each participant’s assessment of the many factors that shape the outlook. The median projection for growth of inflation-adjusted gross domestic product, or real GDP, is 2½ percent this year and next and moderates to 2 percent by 2020, a bit above its estimated longer-run rate. The median projection for the unemployment rate stands at 4.1 percent in the fourth quarter of this year and runs close to 4 percent over the next three years, modestly below the median estimate of its longer-run normal rate. Finally, the median inflation projection is 1.7 percent this year, 1.9 percent next year, and 2 percent in 2019 and 2020. Compared with the projections made in September, real GDP growth is a little stronger, the unemployment rate is a bit lower, and inflation is essentially unchanged. Participants generally identified changes in tax policy as a factor supporting this modestly stronger outlook, although many noted that much uncertainty remains about the macroeconomic effects of the specific measures that ultimately may be implemented. Returning to monetary policy, for the past two years the FOMC has been gradually increasing its target range for the federal funds rate as the economy has continued to make progress toward our goals of maximum employment and price stability. Our decision today continues this process. We still expect that the ongoing strength of the economy will warrant gradual increases in the federal funds rate. That expectation is based on our view that this rate remains somewhat below its neutral level—that is, the level that is neither expansionary nor contractionary and keeps the economy operating on an even keel. Because the neutral rate currently appears to be quite low by historical standards, the federal funds rate would not have to rise much further to get to a neutral policy stance. But because we also expect the neutral level of the federal funds rate to rise somewhat over time, additional gradual rate hikes are likely to be appropriate over the next few years to sustain a strong labor market and stabilize inflation around our 2 percent longer-run objective. Even so, the Committee continues to anticipate that the longer-run neutral level of the federal funds rate is likely to remain below levels that prevailed in previous decades. This view is consistent with participants’ projections of appropriate monetary policy. The median projection for the federal funds rate is 2.1 percent at the end of next year, 2.7 percent at the end of 2019, and 3.1 percent in 2020. Compared with the projections made in September, the median path for the federal funds rate is unchanged through 2019 and a touch higher in 2020. I should note that the economic outlook is highly uncertain, and participants will adjust their assessments of the appropriate path for the federal funds rate as their economic outlooks and views of the risks to the outlook change. Policy is not on a preset course. Additionally, the Committee’s balance sheet normalization program, initiated in October, is proceeding. As we’ve noted previously, changing the target range for the federal funds rate is our primary means of adjusting the stance of monetary policy, and we do not foresee a need to alter our balance sheet normalization program. Hence, our statement no longer mentions this program. Of course, we would be prepared to resume reinvestments if a material deterioration in the economic outlook were to warrant a sizable reduction in the federal funds rate. Finally, I’d like to note that, although I have one more FOMC meeting to attend in the New Year, this will be my last scheduled news conference. Over the next month and a half, I will do my utmost to ensure a smooth transition to my designated successor, Jay Powell. I am confident that he is as deeply committed as I have been to the Federal Reserve’s vital public mission. Thank you for being such an attentive audience these past four years. And, as always, I’ll be happy to take your questions.
