Good afternoon, and welcome. My colleagues and I have one overarching goal: to sustain the economic expansion, with a strong job market and stable prices, for the benefit of the American people. At the FOMC meeting that concluded today, we maintained our policy interest rate but made some significant changes to our statement. Since the beginning of the year, we have judged that our current policy stance was broadly appropriate and that we should be patient in assessing the need for any changes. In light of increased uncertainties and muted inflation pressures, we now emphasize that the Committee will closely monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook and will act as appropriate to sustain the expansion with a strong labor market and inflation near its 2 percent objective. I’d like to step back and review how the changing economic and financial picture brings us to today’s decision. So far this year, the economy has performed reasonably well, with solid fundamentals supporting continued growth and strong employment. Inflation has been running somewhat below our objective, but we have expected it to pick up, supported by solid growth and a strong job market. Along with this favorable picture, we have been mindful of some ongoing crosscurrents, including trade developments and concerns about global growth. At the time of our last FOMC meeting, which ended on May 1, there was tentative evidence that these crosscurrents were moderating. The latest data from China and Europe were encouraging, and there were reports of progress in trade negotiations with China. Our continued patient stance seemed appropriate, and the Committee saw no strong case for adjusting our policy rate. In the weeks since our last meeting, the crosscurrents have reemerged. Growth indicators from around the world have disappointed, on net, raising concerns about the strength of the global economy. Apparent progress on trade turned to greater uncertainty, and our contacts in business and agriculture report heightened concerns over trade developments. These concerns may have contributed to the drop in business confidence in some recent surveys and may be starting to show through to incoming data. Risk sentiment in financial markets has deteriorated as well. Against this backdrop, inflation remains muted. While the baseline outlook remains favorable, the question is whether these uncertainties will continue to weigh on the outlook and thus call for additional monetary policy accommodation. Many FOMC participants now see that the case for a somewhat more accommodative policy has strengthened. Let me explain the basis for this judgment, starting with the outlook for jobs and growth. Participants see unemployment remaining low this year and next. Monthly job gains in May were lower than expected, however, and, in light of recent developments, this bears watching. Still, many labor market indicators remain strong. Community, business, and labor leaders all tell us that the prospects for job seekers have seldom been better, and that this is true even for those who have traditionally struggled to find work. Wages are rising, and this is particularly so for lower-paying jobs. Committee participants’ growth projections from 2019 are little revised from March, with a central tendency of 2 percent to 2.2 percent, just above their estimates of longer-run normal growth. The growth projections for the year as a whole mask some important details about the composition of growth. Annual growth will be boosted by the surprisingly strong first quarter, which had just been reported at the time of the May FOMC meeting. As I noted then, the unexpected strength was largely in net exports and inventories—components that are not generally reliable indicators of ongoing momentum. The more reliable drivers of growth in the economy are spending on consumption and business investment. While consumption was weak in the first quarter, incoming data show that it has bounced back and is now running at a solid pace. In contrast, the limited evidence available at this time suggests that growth in business fixed income has slowed in the second quarter. 1 Moreover, manufacturing production has posted declines so far this year. Thus, while the baseline outlook remains favorable, many FOMC participants cited the investment picture and weaker business sentiment and the crosscurrents I mentioned earlier as supporting their judgment that the risk of less favorable outcomes has risen. After running close to our symmetric 2 percent objective for most of last year, inflation declined in the first quarter. Data since then show some pickup. Participants broadly see inflation moving back up toward our 2 percent objective, but at a slower pace than had been expected. The central tendency for 2019 core inflation, which omits volatile food and energy components, is between 1.7 and 1.8 percent. Setting aside short-term fluctuations, Committee participants expressed concerns about the pace of inflation’s return to 2 percent. Wages are rising, as noted above, but not at a pace that would provide much upward impetus to inflation. Moreover, weaker global growth may continue to hold inflation down around the world. We are firmly committed to our symmetric 2 percent inflation objective, and we are well aware that inflation weakness that persists even in a healthy economy could precipitate a difficult-to-arrest downward drift in longer-run inflation expectations. Because there are no definitive measures of inflation expectations, we must rely on imperfect proxies. Market-based measures of inflation compensation have moved down since our May meeting, and some surveybased expectations measures are near the bottom of their historic ranges. Combining these 1 Chair Powell intended to say that growth in business fixed investment slowed in the second quarter. factors with the risks to growth already noted, participants expressed concerns about a more sustained shortfall of inflation. Overall, our policy discussions focused on the appropriate response to the uncertain environment. The projections of appropriate policy show that many participants believe that some cut in the federal funds rate will be appropriate in the scenario that they see as most likely. Though some participants wrote down policy cuts and others did not, our deliberations made clear that a number of those who wrote down a flat rate path agree that the case for additional accommodation has strengthened since our May meeting. This added accommodation would support economic activity and inflation’s return to our objective. Uncertainties surrounding the baseline outlook have clearly risen since our last meeting. It is important, however, that monetary policy not overreact to any individual data point or shortterm swing in sentiment. Doing so would risk adding even more uncertainty to the outlook. Thus, my colleagues and I will be looking to see whether these uncertainties will continue to weigh on the outlook, and we will use our tools as appropriate to sustain the expansion. Thank you. I will be pleased to take your questions.
