Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome. I will begin with an overview of economic conditions and an explanation of the decisions the Committee made at today’s meeting. My colleagues and I have one overarching goal: to sustain the economic expansion, with a strong job market and stable prices, for the benefit of the American people. The U.S. economy is in a good place, and we will continue to use our monetary policy tools to help keep it there. The jobs market is strong, showing healthier wage gains and prompting many people to join or remain in the workforce. The unemployment rate is near historic lows, and inflation remains near our 2 percent goal. We continue to expect that the American economy will grow at a solid pace in 2019, although likely slower than the very strong pace of 2018. We believe that our current policy stance is appropriate. Since last year, however, we have noted some developments at home and around the world that bear close attention. Given the overall favorable conditions in our economy, my colleagues and I will be patient in assessing what, if any, changes in the stance of policy may be needed. Let me explain in more detail how incoming data warrant our current stance and a wait-and-see approach to changes. With the benefit of fiscal stimulus and other tailwinds, growth in 2018 was strong—in fact, at 3.1 percent, the strongest year in more than a decade. For some time, most forecasts have called for growth to continue in 2019 at a somewhat lower but still healthy pace. For example, last September, Committee participants saw growth coming in at about 2.5 percent this year. Data arriving since September suggest that growth is slowing somewhat more than expected. Financial conditions tightened considerably over the fourth quarter. While conditions have eased since then, they remain less supportive of growth than during most of 2018. Growth has slowed in some foreign economies—notably, in Europe and China. While the U.S. economy showed little evidence of slowdown through the end of 2018, the limited data we have so far this year have been somewhat more mixed. Unusually strong payroll job growth in January was followed by little growth at all in February. Smoothing through these variations, average monthly job growth appears to have stepped down from last year’s strong pace, but job gains remain well above the pace necessary to provide jobs for new labor force entrants. Many other labor market indicators continue to show strength. Weak retail sales data for December bounced back considerably in January but, on balance, seem to point to somewhat slower growth in consumer spending. Business fixed investment also appears to be growing at a slower pace than last year. Inflation has been muted, and some indicators of longer-term inflation expectations remain at the low end of their ranges in recent years. Along with these developments, unresolved policy issues, such as Brexit and the ongoing trade negotiations, pose some risks to the outlook. Much of the discussion at our meeting focused on what we should make of the varied indicators. Today’s Summary of Economic Projections, the SEP, reflects the assessments of individual Committee participants. And these views are in line with a broad range of other forecasts and point to a modest slowdown, with overall conditions remaining favorable. FOMC participants sought—now see 2019 growth at roughly 2 percent, with the unemployment rate remaining below 4 percent. Core inflation, which omits the effects of volatile food and energy prices, remains close to 2 percent. Declines in oil prices since last fall are expected to push headline inflation below 2 percent for a time, but this effect is likely to be temporary. Now, I’m describing views of the most likely outcomes, but historical experience reminds us that growth and inflation this year could be stronger or weaker than what we now project. The federal funds rate is now in the broad range of estimates of neutral—the rate that tends neither to stimulate nor to restrain the economy. As I noted, my colleagues and I think that this setting is well suited to the current outlook and believe that we should be patient in assessing the need for any change in the stance of policy. “Patient” means that we see no need to rush to judgment. It may be some time before the outlook for jobs and inflation calls clearly for a change in policy. In discussing the Committee’s projections, it’s useful to note what those projections are, as well as what they are not. The SEP includes participants’ individual projections of the most likely economic scenario, along with their views of the appropriate path of the federal funds rate in that scenario. Views about the most likely scenario form one input into our policy discussions. We also discuss other plausible scenarios, including the risk of more worrisome outcomes. These and other scenarios and many other considerations go into policy but are not reflected in projections of the most likely case. Thus, we always emphasize that the interest rate projections in the SEP are not a Committee decision. They are not a Committee plan. As Chair Yellen noted some years ago, the FOMC statement, rather than the dot plot, is the device that the Committee uses to express its opinions about the likely path of rates. Today the Committee released Balance Sheet Normalization Principles and Plans— revised Balance Sheet Normalization Principles and Plans. We have long said that the size of the balance sheet will be considered normalized when the balance sheet is once again at the smallest level consistent with conducting monetary policy efficiently and effectively. We have sought to make the normalization process transparent, predictable, and gradual in order to minimize disruption and risks to our dual-mandate objectives. Today’s announcement is the result of discussions over the past four FOMC meetings about how best to achieve these goals. The plans have many technical details, and I’ll be happy to answer questions on those details. But, for now, I’ll summarize the key elements. Since October 2017, we have been allowing our asset holdings to decline by not reinvesting all of the payments we receive as securities matured or were prepaid. Today we announced that we intend to slow the runoff of our assets starting in May and to cease runoff entirely in September of this year. In September, reserve balances may still be somewhat above the level required to conduct policy efficiently and effectively. If this is so, we may hold the size of our asset holdings roughly constant for a time. During this time, ongoing gradual increases in currency and our other nonreserve liabilities would imply very gradual declines in reserve balances. When the Committee judges that reserves should not decline further, securities holdings will again begin to rise, as dictated by the growth of demand for our reserve and nonreserve liabilities. We believe that these plans will facilitate a predictable, transparent, and smooth process, and we will make additional adjustments if conditions warrant. The Committee will soon turn to a few remaining normalization topics, including the desired maturity composition of our portfolio of Treasury securities. We maintain our longstated intention to return to a portfolio consisting mainly of Treasury securities. Thank you. And I will be glad to take your questions.
