Good afternoon, and welcome. At the FOMC meeting that concluded today, we reviewed economic and financial developments in the United States and around the world and decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged. My colleagues and I have one overarching goal: to use our monetary policy tools to sustain the economic expansion with a strong job market and stable prices for the benefit of the American people. Incoming data since our last meeting in March have been broadly in line with our expectations. Economic growth and job creation have both been a bit stronger than we anticipated, while inflation has been somewhat weaker. Overall, the economy continues on a healthy path, and the Committee believes that the current stance of policy is appropriate. The Committee also believes that solid underlying fundamentals are supporting the economy, including accommodative financial conditions, high employment and job growth, rising wages, and strong consumer and business sentiment. Job gains rebounded in March after a weak reading in February and averaged 180,000 per month in the first quarter, well above the pace needed to absorb new entrants to the labor force. Although first-quarter GDP rose more than most forecasters had expected, growth in private consumption and business fixed investment slowed. Recent data suggest that these two components will bounce back, supporting our expectation of healthy GDP growth over the rest of the year. The Committee is strongly committed to our symmetric 2 percent inflation objective. For much of this long expansion, inflation ran a bit below our 2 percent objective, alongside considerable slack in resource utilization. But last year, with the unemployment rate at or below 4 percent, inflation moved up. From March through December, core inflation—which excludes volatile food and energy components—was at or very close to 2 percent. Overall inflation fluctuated from a few tenths above 2 percent to a few tenths below over this period, with the moves mostly due to changes in energy prices. As expected, overall inflation fell at the start of this year as earlier oil price declines worked through the system. Overall inflation for the 12 months ended in March was 1.5 percent. Core inflation unexpectedly fell as well, however, and as of March stood at 1.6 percent for the previous 12 months. We suspect that some transitory factors may be at work. Thus, our baseline view remains that, with a strong job market and continued growth, inflation will return to 2 percent over time and then be roughly symmetric around our longer-term objective. At the start of the year, a number of crosscurrents presented risks to the outlook, including weak global growth, particularly in China and Europe; the possibility of a disruptive Brexit; and uncertainty around unresolved trade negotiations. While concerns remain in all of these areas, it appears that risks have moderated somewhat. Global financial conditions have eased, supported in many places around the world by an accommodative shift in monetary policy and, in some cases, fiscal policy. Recent data from China and Europe show some improvement, and the prospect of a disorderly Brexit has been pushed off for now. Further, there are reports of progress in the trade talks between the United States and China. The Committee views these developments, along with the outlook for continued growth, a strong job market, and muted inflation pressures, as consistent with continued patience in assessing further adjustments in monetary policy. Over the past several months, we have made a number of consequential decisions about our balance sheet. In January, we decided to continue implementing monetary policy using our current policy regime, which involves providing an ample supply of reserves. In March, we decided to slow the pace of balance sheet runoff, starting this month, and to cease runoff entirely in September. These plans support our longer-run dual-mandate objectives and also provide clarity about the path of our asset holdings. Today we had a preliminary discussion about the longer-run maturity composition of the portfolio. Before the financial crisis, our portfolio was weighted toward shorter-term debt of the federal government. In the wake of the crisis, the Fed bought a large amount of longer-term securities with the aim of lowering longer-term interest rates and, thus, supporting the recovery. Because of these purchases, our portfolio is now weighted toward longer-term securities. As part of normalization, we will have to decide what the maturity structure should be in the longer term. This choice raises many complex issues and has possible implications for the stance of policy. Today’s preliminary discussion laid the groundwork for more complete analysis and discussion, and we plan to return to the maturity composition question toward the end of the year. There is no pressing need to resolve this matter, however, and any decisions we ultimately reach will be implemented with considerable advance notice and in a manner that allows for smooth adjustment. As we have often emphasized, adjustments to the balance sheet normalization process may well be needed as the process unfolds. Finally, we made a small technical adjustment in one of our tools for implementing monetary policy: the interest rate on excess reserves, or IOER rate. The change does not reflect any shift in the intended stance of monetary policy. We use the IOER rate to help keep the federal funds rate in our target range. As balance sheet normalization continues, we have expected that the effective federal funds rate would shift up over time relative to the IOER rate. Last year we twice lowered the IOER rate by 5 basis points relative to the top of the target range after the federal funds rate moved toward the top of the range. These actions helped keep the effective federal funds rate well within the target range. And today we made one more such change. The target range for the federal funds rate is our main indicator of the stance of policy, and it remains unchanged. Thank you very much. I will be glad to take your questions.
