Good evening, everyone. Today the Federal Reserve took a number of actions to support American families and business and the economy overall and to promote the flow of credit as we weather disruptions caused by the coronavirus. The virus is having a profound effect on people across the United States and around the world. On behalf of my colleagues at the Federal Reserve, our first concern is for those who’ve been harmed. Families, businesses, schools, organizations, and governments at all levels are taking steps to protect people’s health. These measures, which are essential for containing the outbreak, will nonetheless understandably take a toll on economic activity in the near term. While the primary response to this challenge will come from our health-care providers and policy experts, economic policymakers must do what we can to ease hardship caused by the disruptions to the economy and to support a swift return to normal once they have passed. The Federal Reserve’s role is guided by our mandate from Congress to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people, along with our responsibilities to promote the stability of the financial system. Today we reduced the target range for our policy interest rate by 1 percentage point, bringing it close to zero, and said that we expect to maintain the rate at this level until we’re confident that the economy has weathered recent events and is on track to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. In addition, we took other actions to support the flow of credit to households and businesses. Before describing our actions more fully, I will share how my colleagues and I currently view the economic outlook. The economy came into this challenging period on a strong footing. The unemployment rate was 3.5 percent in February and has been at or near half-century lows for almost two years. Job gains have been running at a solid pace, well above what is needed to Chair Powell’s Press Conference Call provide jobs for new entrants into the labor market. Participation in the labor force by people in their prime working years remained near its highest rate in more than a decade. And wages have been rising, particularly for lower-paying jobs. Overall economic activity has been expanding at a moderate rate, even though weak growth abroad and trade developments have been weighing on some sectors. U.S. banks are strong, have high levels of capital and liquidity, and are well positioned to provide credit to households and businesses. Against this favorable backdrop, the virus presents significant economic challenges. Like others, we expect that the illness and the measures now being put in place to stem its spread will have a significant effect on economic activity in the near term. Those in travel, tourism, and hospitality industries are already seeing a sharp drop in business. In addition, the effects of the outbreak are restraining economic activity in many foreign economies, which is causing difficulties for U.S. industries that rely on global supply chains. The weakness abroad will also weigh on our exports for a time. Moreover, the energy sector has recently come under stress because of the large drop in global oil prices. Inflation, which has continued to run below our symmetric 2 percent objective, will likely be held down this year by the effects of the outbreak. Financial conditions have also tightened markedly. The cost of credit has risen for all but the strongest borrowers, and stock markets around the world are down sharply. Moreover, the rapidly evolving situation has led to high volatility in financial markets as everyone tries to assess the path ahead. In the past week, several important financial markets, including the market for U.S. Treasury securities, have at times shown signs of stress and impaired liquidity. The market for Treasury securities is a critical part of the foundation of the global financial system. It is generally the most liquid of all markets and serves as the benchmark by which many other financial assets are valued. It plays an important role in allowing households Chair Powell’s Press Conference Call and firms to earn a safe return and manage their risks. When stresses arise in the Treasury market, they can reverberate through the entire financial system and the economy. To prevent this from happening and to support the smooth functioning of the Treasury market, we announced today that we will purchase at least $500 billion of Treasury securities over the coming months. Similar stresses have also emerged in the market for agency mortgage-backed securities, which is closely linked to the Treasury market and critically supports the ability of people to get a mortgage to buy a house or refinance an existing mortgage. To improve the functioning of this market and to ensure the effective transmission of monetary policy to borrowers in the economy, we will also purchase at least $200 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities over coming months and immediately cease the runoff of these securities in our portfolio. While the primary purpose of these securities purchases is to restore smooth market functioning so that credit can continue to flow, the purchases will also foster more accommodative financial conditions. The Federal Reserve announced a number of other actions today to support the flow of credit to households and businesses, thereby promoting our maximum employment and price stability goals. Of these, I will highlight two. First, we reduced the interest rate on discount window loans by 1½ percentage points, bringing that rate to ¼ percent. The discount window plays an important role in supporting liquidity and stability in the banking system, and we encourage banks to turn to the discount window to help meet demands for credit from households and businesses. To make the discount window more effective, we will also offer discount window loans for periods up to 90 days. Because of the importance of the U.S. dollar in the global economy, strains in markets for borrowing and lending dollars overseas can disrupt financial conditions here in the United States. Chair Powell’s Press Conference Call To guard against such disruptions, the Federal Reserve maintains swap lines with five major central banks. When dollar funding pressures emerge abroad, those central banks can contain the pressures in their jurisdictions and prevent them from impeding the flow of credit here at home. To address potential pressures in these markets during the current period of elevated uncertainty, we made a coordinated announcement with the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank to reduce the pricing on our dollar swap lines. In addition, our central bank counterparts will begin offering dollars to institutions in their jurisdictions for a term of 84 days in addition to the usual one-week operation. These long-standing arrangements carry no risk to the Federal Reserve or to the American taxpayer. I won’t go into detail on the other actions we took today, but they involved eliminating reserve requirements for banks and encouraging banks to make use of intraday credit with the Federal Reserve and to use their capital and liquidity buffers as they support lending to households and businesses. The actions we have announced today will help American families and businesses and, indeed, our entire economy weather this difficult period and will foster a more vigor—more vigorous return to normal once the disruptions from the coronavirus abate. We will continue to closely monitor economic and financial developments and their implications for the economic outlook. We are prepared to use our full range of tools to support the flow of credit to households and business, to help keep the economy strong, and to promote our maximum employment and price stability goals. Chair Powell’s Press Conference Call Finally, let me note that today’s FOMC meeting today was in lieu of the meeting scheduled for next Tuesday and Wednesday. Thank you. I’ll be—I’ll be happy to take a few of your questions.
