Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for being here. At today’s meeting, my colleagues and I decided to leave our policy rate unchanged. As always, we base our decisions on our judgment of how best to achieve the goals Congress has given us: maximum employment and price stability. We believe monetary policy is well positioned to serve the American people by supporting continued economic growth, a strong job market, and a return of inflation to our symmetric 2 percent goal. The expansion is in its 11th year, the longest on record. Growth in household spending moderated toward the end of last year, but with a healthy job market, rising incomes, and upbeat consumer confidence, the fundamentals supporting household spending are solid. In contrast, business investment and exports remain weak, and manufacturing output has declined over the past year. Sluggish growth abroad and trade developments have been weighing on activity in these sectors. However, some of the uncertainties around trade have diminished recently, and there are some signs that global growth may be stabilizing after declining since mid-2018. Nonetheless, uncertainties about the outlook remain, including those posed by the new coronavirus. Overall, with monetary and financial conditions supportive, we expect moderate economic growth to continue. The unemployment rate has been near half-century lows for well more than a year, and the pace of job gains remains solid. Participation in the labor force by people in their prime working years, ages 25 to 54, is at its highest level in more than a decade. And wages have been rising, particularly for lower-paying jobs. People who live and work in middle-income communities and low-income communities tell us that many who have struggled to find work are now finding new opportunities. Employment gains have been broad based across all racial and ethnic groups and all levels of education. These developments underscore for us the importance of sustaining the expansion so that the strong job market reaches more of those left behind. Inflation continues to run below our symmetric 2 percent objective. Over the 12 months through November, total PCE inflation was 1.5 percent, and core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, was 1.6 percent. Available data suggest similar inflation readings for December, though we expect inflation to move closer to 2 percent over the next few months as unusually low readings from early 2019 drop out of the calculation. While low and stable inflation is certainly a good thing, inflation that runs persistently below our objective can lead longer-term inflation expectations to drift down, pulling actual inflation even lower. In turn, interest rates would be lower as well—closer to their effective lower bound. As a result, we would have less room to reduce interest rates to support the economy in a future downturn to the detriment of American families and businesses. We have seen this dynamic play out in other economies around the world, and we are determined to avoid it here in the United States. In particular, we believe the current stance of monetary policy is appropriate to support sustained economic growth, a strong labor market, and inflation returning to our 2 percent— symmetric 2 percent objective. As long as incoming information about the economy remains broadly consistent with this outlook, the current stance of monetary policy likely will remain appropriate. We will be monitoring the effects of the policy actions we took last year, along with other information bearing on the outlook, as we assess the appropriate path of the target range for the federal funds rate. Of course, if developments emerge that cause a material reassessment of our outlook, we would respond accordingly. Policy is not on a preset course. I will conclude with a brief overview of our current plans for our technical operations to implement monetary policy. The plan the FOMC announced back in October to purchase Treasury bills and conduct repo operations has proceeded smoothly and has succeeded in providing an ample supply of reserves to the banking system and effectively controlling the federal funds rate. In light of the resulting stability in the federal funds rate and money market conditions more generally, we decided to make a small technical upward adjustment to administered rates to ensure that the federal funds rate trades well within the target range. This action reverses the small downward adjustment made in September when money markets were volatile. As our bill purchases continue to build reserves toward levels that maintain ample conditions, the role played by active repo operations will naturally recede. Over the first half of this year, we intend to adjust the size and pricing of repo operations as we transition away from their active use in supplying reserves. This process will take place gradually, and, as indicated in today’s FOMC directive to the Desk, we expect to continue offering repos at least through April to ensure a consistently ample supply of reserves. Based on current projections, we expect that the underlying level of reserves will durably reach ample levels sometime in the second quarter of this year. As we get close to that point, we intend to slow the pace of purchases and transition to a program of smaller reserve management purchases that maintains an ample level of reserves without the active use of repos. At that point, as in the pre-crisis period, our balance sheet will be expanding gradually over time, reflecting the trend growth in the demand for currency and other Federal Reserve liabilities. All of these technical measures are designed to support the efficient and effective implementation of monetary policy and are not intended to represent a chance—a change in the stance of monetary policy. We are committed to completing the transition to our longer-run ample-reserves regime smoothly and predictably. Of course, we will continue to closely monitor conditions in money markets, and we will adjust these plans as conditions warrant. Thank you, and I’ll be happy to take your questions.
